In this exercise, we are
going to trace a couple of
requests over 3 microservices,
the familiar solver, adder
and multiplier constellation.
So we are going to first run the
lab monitor-trace start script,
which downloads the exercise
files and subscripts.
If we go to DO378/labs/monitor-
trace/ directory, we can see that
there are already some scripts here
and the 3 projects that we will be
using to trace. The ad-tracing script is
friendly utility script that
actually adds the quarkus-smallrye-
opentracing extension
to all of our projects.
If we just run it,
it's going to actually modify every
one of the project's pom.xml
and then if we look at the jaeger script,
we can see that it really just runs
the jaegertracing/all-in-
one container in podman and exposes
all the ports needed for communication.
So, if we run the jaeger script,
it's going to start up the jaeger instance.
While we are waiting for it to start,
let's just move over to another terminal
window and go to the labs/monitor-
trace directory. We will be editing all 3
of the applications.property files.
We will be adding pretty much the
same content to all 3 of them.
So we are going to name the service using
quarkus.jaeger.service-name property.
We are going to use the const
sampler type in all of
them collecting a 100
percent of all the samples.
And we are going to tell
that the console log
for traces should actually
contain traceId,
the spanId and so on.
We are also going to log the spans to
the console using this format.
And for Jaeger to report
the span and the trace information
back to the collector
we are going to point it to 14268 port.
The endpoint /api/traces
telling it to propagate b3 level headers
which means we will be able to correlate
spans and put them into our trace.
The only thing that's
going to be different from
this block that was added to the, as
you can see here adders
application.properties,
we are going to be adding the same block
to the multiplier, the solver services,
well. The only thing we have to be
careful about is that
we will name the service
differently because that's what
identifies the origin of the traces.
So we are going to name it multiplier for
the multiplier service and
solver for the solver service.
Right!
Now we can start the
applications, that now that we have
configured the tracing properties
in each application as well.
And as they are starting up,
we can move over to the next tab and
send request to the adder service first,
telling it to add 5 and 3 together,
as we get a response.
We can go and open the
Jaeger web console. We will
be entering the adder service on
the left-hand side because if you have
opened it before, just reload it
because initially there was no
trace data found so just reload it
and select adder on
the left-hand side as the service
name and click Find Traces.
You will be able to see the 1 trace
that has so far being collected.
And clicking on it,
you will be able to see the
details of the trace.
So you can see that it
took a fairly long time,
280 milliseconds to resolve this
full request of which a quarter of
a second was spent in the adders GET
method doing something of initialization.
That was the first request
to the Quarkus instance here,
so that's why it probably
took a little bit longer.
It had to initialize all the data structures
then. It submitted a request to solver,
that's for 1 operand.
Got it
returned, submitted another
request to solver for
the other operand and producer response.
Doing the same thing to the multiplier,
paying attention to the port,
we tell to multiply 5 and 4,
we get a response of 20.
Doing another search for the multiplier
service and clicking Find Traces
we will be able to see that 1
single trace was produced so far.
Clicking on it, we see a very similar,
structure of spans.
A lot quicker though,
just 54.7 milliseconds,
lot less time spent in the
multipliers initial GET span.
Right!
Let's then combine all of them together.
Let's ask solver to solve
a more complex equation,
5 times 4 plus 3.
We do get the correct result.
And looking at the trace data,
it's looking for the solvers
traces and clicking Find Traces.
We will be able to see the last one is
the most recent one, the topmost one.
Clicking on it, we can see how
the requests have actually
been traversing various microservices.
So first, the adder was
invoking the multiplier,
and then finally, the adder
was invoking the solver.
We can see a nice graph of how
these requests have been processed.
So the recursive flow of this
application's calculation, right!
So now that's done.
We can press Control C to
stop the applications.
Actually that would be enter in
this application terminal window.
We can press Control C to stop
Jaeger and run the lab monitor-trace finish script,
which will clean everything up.
What remains is for you to
join us in the next video,
which is the end of chapter
review lab. See you there.